Observability tools post (#3222)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2021/role-of-observability-high-performing-teams.md

---
title: "Monitoring is no longer enough: For high-performing development teams you need observability tools"
author: 
authorUrl: 
description: "Observability and tracking the right metrics are critical to development teams' success. We chatted to Charity Majors of Honeycomb about bridging the gap between dev and ops and making software more comprehensible to everyone."
publishDate: 2021-06-04T18:00-07:00
tags: [blog]
slug: role-of-observability-tools-high-performing-development-teams
heroImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/high-performing-development-teams-observability.gif
socialImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/high-performing-development-teams-observability.gif

> published: false

Author: ```suggestion
published: true
```

---

> title: "Monitoring is no longer enough: For high-performing development teams you need observability tools"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Monitoring is not enough: For high-performing development teams you need observability tools"
```

author: Kevin Graham
authorUrl: 
description: "Observability and tracking the right metrics are critical to development teams' success. We chatted to Charity Majors of Honeycomb about bridging the gap between dev and ops, and making software more comprehensible to everyone."
publishDate: 2021-06-04T18:00-07:00
tags: [blog]
slug: role-of-observability-tools-high-performing-development-teams
heroImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/high-performing-development-teams-observability.gif
socialImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/high-performing-development-teams-observability.gif
published: true
---

![Facilitating high-performing teams](https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/high-performing-development-teams-observability.gif)

> Legacy methods for predicting system failures are no longer enough. To bring development and operation teams together more effectively, you need modern observability and monitoring tools designed for highly distributed systems and microservices architectures.

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful to give some high-level context or a clue as to why legacy methods are no longer enough here.

During a recent [Sourcegraph podcast episode](/podcast/charity-majors/), [Charity Majors](https://www.linkedin.com/in/charity-majors/), Founder and CTO of [Honeycomb](https://www.honeycomb.io/) spoke with Sourcegraph Cofounder and CTO [Beyang Liu](/handbook/company/team#beyang-liu) about the impact of observability and monitoring on development teams.

## Why monitoring alone is no longer enough

> Orgs have historically relied in telemetry and monitoring tools to predict and surface system failues, but in most cases, logs are only useful if you know what to include in them before deployment and what to search for when a problem arises. Similarly, most metrics aren’t tied together in a way that makes it possible to understand these complex system states. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orgs have historically relied on telemetry and monitoring tools to predict and surface system failues, but in most cases, logs are only useful if you know what to include in them before deployment and what to search for when a problem arises. Similarly, most metrics aren’t tied together in a way that makes it possible to understand these complex system states. 
```

>"We really have to make it a production practice and an expectation that everyone who's writing code spends time every week with their eyes on production, on their code. You're going to pull out so many more subtler bugs and problems that would never reach the level of paging someone from operations." – Charity

While monitoring tools are great for keeping operations teams informed about system failures, observability tools can give you a wide range of data to better understand the way your code is performing. That’s because they allow you to set alerts thresholds to detect unexpected behavior that’s not necessarily catastrophic. Over the longer term, therefore, observability can make complex systems more comprehensible and resilient than relying solely on monitoring tools.

## You need to be measuring the right things 

>  According to the [Accelerated State of DevOps report](https://cloud.google.com/devops/state-of-devops/), the bottom 50% of performers are getting worse year-over-year, while the top 50% continue to get better even faster. That’s because complex systems are constantly on the verge of overtaking teams if they’re not taking steps to make their software more comprehensible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to the [Accelerated State of DevOps report](https://cloud.google.com/devops/state-of-devops/), the bottom 50% of performers are getting worse year-over-year, while the top 50% continue to get better even faster. That’s because complex systems are constantly on the verge of overtaking teams if they’re not taking steps to make their software more comprehensible.
```
